Legendary - ranmi
Creature - danlu
Artifact - rutmi
Spell - mafru'e
Enchantment - vi'ormakfa (permanent magic)
Instant - sutmocmakfa (fast momentary magic)
Sorcery - mocmakfa (momentary magic)
Planeswalker - munje + litru -> mujli'u
Land - tumla
Battle - nundamba

Token - kelsinci
The format for tokens is "{quantity} {p/t} {types} token(s) which have {abilities}and are {color(s)} and {subtypes}". I think that puts the most important information first.
Ex: "a 1/1 white Dog creature token" becomes "pa 1/1 danlu kelsinci poi blabi gi'e gerku"

Clue - fatci
Background - prulisri
Adventure - capli'ulisri (adventurer story)
Siege - srugunta
Case - nonseljmi (mystery, not-understood)
Food - cidja
Aura - sruri
Equipment - cabra

Power - tsali
Toughness - tinsa
Base power and toughness - jicmu tsali bo tinsa
Life - kanro
Damage - terxai

Tap - xakygau (x1 uses up x2)
Untap - tolxakygau (x1 un-uses up x2)
Transform - gafygau (different word from the state of being transformed, but it's based off the same root word)
Cast - mafpli
Deal (as in damage) - dunda (lo terxai kelnemka'u)
Destroy - despo
Draw - cpacu (drawing from the library is implied. this is like saying "obtain a card" obviously it comes from the library)
Discard - vimcu (discarding from your hand is implied. this is like saying "lose a card". it's less obvious this comes from the library but y'know)
Exile - dargau
Return - xrubei
Put - punji
Remove - tolpu'i
Ability - kelstati
Trigger - ganse (notice)
Attack - gunta
Block - gutfanta
Sacrifice - li'aspo
Gain - zenba
Enter - nerkla
Conjure - mafyzba
Shuffle - kasygau (It's implied that the thing being shuffled is your library unless stated otherwise.)
Scry - prujungau
Investigate - dafsisku (answer-search)
Create - majgau
Die - mrobi'o

White - blabi
Blue - blanu
Black - xekri
Red - xunre
Green - 

Source - krasi
Permanent - vi'ordai
Card - karda

Library - le ckusro stuzi
Battlefield - le nundamba stuzi
Graveyard - le mrofoi stuzi
Exile (zone) - le dargau stuzi
Hand (zone) - le xance stuzi
Command zone - le minde stuzi

Tapped (state) - lo (ka/za'i) selxaksu
Untapped (state) - lo (ka/za'i) tolselxaksu
Transformed (state) - lo (ka/za'i) pu tegalfi

Turns and Steps/Phases of turns:
turn - kelka'u
phase - pruce
step - vepruce
upkeep - cikre vepruce
end step - fanmo vepruce

Opponent - bradi
Player - kelci

Noncombat - nardamba

Control - jitro

Keywords
When written on its own line, only the word is written, and the subject is omitted. It doesn't say "lo ti vi'ordai cu vofli" to say "Flying". It's just "vofli". The purpose of these keywords is to save space.
When written as a declaration/check that something has or gains that keyword, it's written as the property of that keyword. So to say "Your creatures gain flying" you would say "loi danlu po do lebna lo ka vofli" meaning "Your creatures gain the property of flying"
Trample - maxdzu
Vigilance - judycikna
Flying - vofli
Lifelink - ka'orle'a
Flash - pojgu'i (Every language uses light for flash despite the fact it has nothing to do with light.)
Hexproof - dapyjdari
Ward - selbandu
Enchant - mafyjo'e (x1 is magically connected to x2)
Equip - ca'ardu'a (x1 gives x2 tool x3)
Attach - jornygau (x1 (agent) connects x2 to x3)
Defender - badgau
Rebound - rapmakfa
Disguise - ticta'u

Ability Words
Eminence - misybalvlapi (fame-grand-powerful)

Phyrexian - .fairexi'an.
Praetor - .pra'etor.
Detective - cipcta
Warlock - kluzeimafcre (ideas-crime-magic-user)
Wizard - mafcre
Warrior - sonci
Soldier - jemsoi
Cleric - jdamikce
Scout - tumfakli'u (land-discover-travel)
Bird - cipni
Dog - gerku
Cat - mlatu
Dragon - drakono
Demon - dermoni
Elephant - xanto
God - cevni
Human - remna
Avatar - ceirka'i (god-proxy)
Elemental - selratkai (element-being)
Angel - anjeli
Golem - remsmimi'i (human-similar-machine)
Construct - runmivmi'i (artificially-living-machine)
Centaur - kentauru
Merfolk - jaupre
Wall - bitmu

Types of counters:
Counter (the thing placed on cards) - nacdai
Ex: pa +1/+1 nacdai, pa temci nacdai
Stun - seljenca nacdai

Targets are written in a way that supposes the targeting at the beginning of the ability, closer to how it actually works per the rules of magic. Example:
  - "Destroy target creature" would be written as, in lojban, "Choose target creature, which we will call thing-1. Destroy thing-1."
  - The word for "choose" for targets in this way is "fargau."
  - Doing it this way is very elegant in lojban and the phrasing is consistent across many examples.

Replacement effects are written as:
selbasti ro nu [event being replaced] kei lo nu [event it is replaced with] kei

Triggered abilities are written as:
ba semulcabna ro nu [trigger event] kei pa nu [action] kei

Intervening if clauses:
IFLE

Reasoning for just using the words for types/subtypes instead of writing them properly with "lo danlu" or "lo rutmi":
  - In english, we don't write "A creature - A human and druid", we just say "Creature - Human Druid"
  - Benefit: The text is shorter, and the types are identifiable by being single words